Mission Business #2
Aloha! Because of necessity and urgency, I needed to inform you and   to review the following guidelines:
1. Be with your companion in the same room, even at Church. In members or investigators home, you must be shoulder to shoulder. Avoid using their CR.
2. Missionaries should not wear any kind of ring- including CTR rings. Sisters may wear one bracelet and one pair of earring. No bracelets of any kind for elders. You can only wear sunglasses when prescribed by your doctor.
3. Do not go to a gym. No free weights- including dumbbells.
4. Do not initiate service projects. When invited, you cannot use any kind of tools. Do not participate in any construction projects.
5. You should not wake up before your companion to be alone.
6. DVD players should be kept in your apartment at all times. It should not be taken out of your house to any meetings including district meetings. Only Preach My Gospel DVD's can be played. Music CD's and other DVD tapes, including those produced by the Church should not be played in your DVD player.
7. You are not allowed to bring, purchase or borrow any kind of musical instrument.
8. Board games and card games are not allowed in your mission. Avoid playing "I dare you" games and making bets.
9. Proceed to your proselyting area after district meeting. Do not serve any refreshments in district meetings.
10. Sit with your companion at all times, including classes, during Church. Do not sit with other companionship during stake and district conferences. Sit with your companion beside members and investigators.
11. You must go back to your areas immediately after zone meetings. Limit your business time in the mission office.
12. Exchanges can only be done by the assistants, zone leaders and district leaders. No exchanges with the members. You can only be with member- missionaries of the same sex when traveling/walking to your appointments. Member-missionaries of the opposite sex can only meet you in your appointment's house. Do not allow any member inside your house.
13. I encourage you to talk to your district leader or zone leaders first if you have any concern. They will consult with the assistants or with me if needed.
14. Do not "advertise" your transfer and release date. Missionaries, members and investigators should not hold any kind of farewell party for a missionary who is going home or is being transferred.
15. Do not buy softdrinks. But when offered, you may drink it.
16. You should not loan money to your companion nor ask money from members and non-members. If you are short of budget, contact me directly. Do not give any monetary assistance to any member nor to your own family back home- encourage them to go to their bishop or branch president.
17. You can only email to your family. Exception must be approved by me. Limit your time in internet café. Sit side by side. Do not go to unauthorized web sites such as facebook or youtube.
18. Limit dinner appointments for one hour only.
19. Do not be alone with children. Do not carry them nor place them on your lap. You should not offer help to clean nor take them to CR.
20. Do not eat bagoong and balut. Do not buy any kind of food from sidewalk vendors.
21. You should not sleep anywhere outside your house. You and your companion must sleep in the same bedroom in separate beds.
21. No pet of any kind is allowed in your house. Do not feed birds, dogs and cats.
22. Do not ask anyone to do your laundry. You may only do your laundry on preparation days.
23. You can only play basketball with fulltime missionaries, half court and only on preparation days.
24. You are not allowed to use anyone else’s cell phone- missionary nor members. Be wise in its use. When teaching or in a meeting, do not answer any call or text. Do not attempt to remove the SIM card. Both missionaries in a companionship has the privilege to use the cell phone.
You are responsible in helping your companion to keep these guidelines. They will protect you from both physical and spiritual harm. Be wise in your decision. When in doubt, do not do it. I hope and pray that you can identify and understand the principles incorporated in these guidelines. I love you and I desire the very best achievement of your missionary purpose.