Mission Business #1
Aloha My Dear Elders and Sisters!
Last July of 2012, we had a marvelous opportunity to be with Elder and Sister Ardern to attend the San Carlos District Conference. My appreciation to Elder and Sister Bevans and Elder and Sister Andersen for helping out with all the technical and administrative preparations.
Our San Carlos Zone did present themselves very well. They were with their companions at all times and were seated with members and investigators. We also had one photo shoot. There was not really time to meet with our missionaries and members due to their flight schedule.
I've been instructed and well trained by Elder Ardern. He was also the one who gave us the orientation in Manila when we first came in. I wanted to update everyone on the following:
1. Let us all familiarize ourselves with the Area Presidency goal in the Philippines. Our involvement in implementing them should not "release" the leaders of their responsibilities. We should be gentle in our assistance, persuasive in our approach, and appreciative in however small contribution they could offer."
2. The achievement of these Area Goals is a process and on-going. We need to be consistent, maintain a "perfect brightness of hope", and abundance of charity.
3. The Tuesday following the Zone Leaders Council will now be a Zone Leaders Training Meeting. There will be no District Meeting on that week. The Zone Leaders will be training the missionaries on what they were trained on during our Zone Leaders Council. This is a worldwide instruction from the Missionary Department. I would appreciate if you could include in your letters an evaluation of these Zone Leaders Training Meetings.
4. It is my desire that every missionary in this mission could become a qualified trainer. Those who are given assignments to train, I hope that after 12-weeks, your companion can become trainers themselves. Whether you will be training or not, being a "trainer missionary" will improve the quality of your work.
5. I received an approval to upgrade all our housing. If your accommodation does not meet the minimum criteria for missionary housing, it is your responsibility to inform the owner and give a sufficient period of time for the repair. If the owner is not responsive, you may look for another place. You may seek the assistance of our couple missionaries if needed. There are furnishings that the mission provides. There maybe matresses, electric fans, refrigerators, etc that needed to be replaced. Please let us know. It is preferable to have only one companionship per apartment.
6. I understand that many of you are restricting the use of electricity, water and gas. You are concern that your support may not sustain you for your missionary needs. I'd like to invite those who are willing, to send me a detailed list of your daily expenses for one month. I will study ways we can improve the quality of your missionary living.
7. Love your companion as your own brother or sister. Put your companion's needs ahead of yours. Do some little things for your companion that will increase your love to one another. Never retire to bed without giving your appreciation to your companion and express your sincere love for being together.
8. I would like to address transfers. Please let me be the mission president and you be the missionary. I personally study transfers and companionships. I seek the guidance of our Lord. I seek for His approval after. The principle of "it is not where you serve, but how you serve" still applies to us. And may I add, "it is not where you serve neither whom you serve with, but how you serve faithfully." Unless it is an emergency, I discourage transfer requests- it disturbs the sacred process.
I love each and every one of you. It is my only desire that you will continue to have joy in your work. My wife and I are very concern of your well-being. We are all in this sacred work- together as a family- there are house rules to be followed, chores that need to be done, schedules to keep us on tract, reports to submit and "all things shall work together for your good."
President Marlo O. Lopez
